\section{Why arn't you covering language \newline 
learning or statistical grammars?}

A book on learning languages would be very interesting, but research efforts
in natural language learning today really arn't focused on learning language
as children learn language.  Rather, they are focused on a very different
problem--the induction of statistical parsers from corpora consisting of parse
trees for sentences.  This has been the dominant paradigm now for around 13
years or so (at the time of this writing.  By the standards the researchers
have set for themselves (insert names of metrics here) there's been
lots of progress, but by any reasonable measure, the results are rather 
megre.  Its  not at all obvious that this line of reasearch is going anywhere.

But even if it {\em could} be convincingly pulled off, it {\em still} would
shed no light on how children actually learn language, or on how adults
actually process language, because nobody learns languages from corpora of
parse trees.  Its a problem invented by academics for academics.

And even if you are more interested in saving money than you are in solving
interesting problems, there really is no economic justification for it.  The
promise is that instead of needing a highly-skilled (and therefore expensive)
natural language engineer to manually create grammars, why not just have a
program automatically learn it from parsed corpora?  Sounds great, but lets
not forget that it takes just as highly-skilled (and therefore just as
expensive) natural langauge engineers to produce parsed corpora.  Its actually
far more expensive to create an extensive corpus (and ensure that it is
reasonably error free) than it is to write a wide coverage grammar for a
language.  Microsoft, for example, has extremely wide-coverage grammars for
all the world's major languages, for use in Microsoft Word's grammar
checker--all lovingly hand crafted.

Syntactic theory, after all, is actually the {\em best} understood aspect of
natural language processing--and it certainly isn't what is holding us back.
One motivation for writing this book is to try to bring the attention back to
actual, not artifactual, problems.

